---
layout: post
title:  "Equation Render Test"
date:   2020-08-01 13:32:23 -0500
categories: jekyll update
---

> This post is a summary of Prof Naftali Tishby's recent talk on "Information Theory in Deep Learning". It presented how to apply the information theory to study the growth and transformation of deep neural networks during training.

Recently I watched the talk ["Information Theory in Deep Learning"](https://youtu.be/bLqJHjXihK8) by Prof Naftali Tishby and found it very interesting. He presented how to apply the information theory to study the growth and transformation of deep neural networks during training. Using the [Information Bottleneck (IB)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/physics/0004057.pdf) method, he proposed a new learning bound for deep neural networks (DNN), as the traditional learning theory fails due to the exponentially large number of parameters. Another keen observation is that DNN training involves two distinct phases: First, the network is trained to fully represent the input data and minimize the generalization error; then, it learns to forget the irrelevant details by compressing the representation of the input.

## Basic Concepts

[Markov Chain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markov_chain)

A Markov process is a ["memoryless"](http://mathworld.wolfram.com/Memoryless.html) (also called "Markov Property") stochastic process. A Markov chain is a type of Markov process containing multiple discrete states. That is being said, the conditional probability of future states of the process is only determined by the current state and does not depend on the past states.


[Kullback–Leibler (KL) Divergence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kullback%E2%80%93Leibler_divergence)

KL divergence measures how one probability distribution $$p$$ diverges from a second expected probability distribution $$q$$. It is asymmetric.

$$
\begin{aligned}
D_{KL}(p \| q) &= \sum_x p(x) \log \frac{p(x)}{q(x)} \\
 &= - \sum_x p(x)\log q(x) + \sum_x p(x)\log p(x) \\
 &= H(P, Q) - H(P)
\end{aligned}
$$

$$D_{KL}$$ achieves the minimum zero when $$p(x)$$ == $$q(x)$$ everywhere.


[Mutual Information](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutual_information)

Mutual information measures the mutual dependence between two variables. It quantifies the "amount of information" obtained about one random variable through the other random variable. Mutual information is symmetric.

$$
\begin{aligned}
I(X;Y) &= D_{KL}[p(x,y) \| p(x)p(y)] \\
 &= \sum_{x \in X, y \in Y} p(x, y) \log(\frac{p(x, y)}{p(x)p(y)}) \\
 &= \sum_{x \in X, y \in Y} p(x, y) \log(\frac{p(x|y)}{p(x)}) \\ 
 &= H(X) - H(X|Y) \\
\end{aligned}
$$

